#summary Detailed overview of the URL rewrite map

= Introduction =

The framework includes a _.htaccess_ file containing rewrite rules for Apache's mod_rewrite.

This will only work for Apache webservers with the mod_rewrite module active. More information can be found here: [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_rewrite.html]

Every page request is directed to index.php, which can be called the [BootStrapper]. After preparing some other things, it will call Waf::ProcessURL which will define the include_file property according to some code logic.

Now that the framework knows which page the user is after, it will call Waf::DoOutput() to start processing the page and the templates.

= Rewrite map =

== Pages ==
  * Example: {basepath}myPage.htm
  * Rewritten URL: index.php?page=myPage
  * Waf->include_file: /application/pages/myPage.php

== Modules ==
  * Example: {basepath}account/logout
  * Rewritten URL: index.php?module=account&action=logout
  * Waf->include_file: /application/modules/account/logout.php

You don't need to provide an action. In that case the framework will use /module/index.php instead:

  * Example: {basepath}account
  * Rewritten URL: index.php?module=account
  * Waf->include_file: /application/modules/account/index.php

You can also provide an additional value:
  * Example: {basepath}users/edit/3
  * Rewritten URL: index.php?module=users&action=edit&value=3
  * Waf->include_file: /application/modules/users/edit.php
  * $_GET['value'] is set and has the value '3'

Note: You can only provide a value if you also provide an action. If you need to use values in the index page, you must do this as follows:
  * Example: {basepath}users/index/3
  * Rewritten URL: index.php?module=users&action=index&value=3
  * Waf->include_file: /application/modules/users/index.php
  * $_GET['value'] is set and has the value '3'

== Public pages ==
Public pages use the same code as the modules:
  * Example: {basepath}myPublicPage
  * Rewritten URL: index.php?module=myPublicPage
  * Waf->include_file: /application/public/myPublicPage.php

The public page will only be available if no module with the same name exists. A logged on user can also visit public pages, but users that aren't logged in won't have access to modules obviously.

== API ==
The API has a similar rewrite map:

  * Example: {basepath}api/object
  * Rewritten URL: api.php?controller=object

  * Example: {basepath}api/object
  * Rewritten URL: api.php?controller=object

  * Example: {basepath}api/object/3
  * Rewritten URL: api.php?controller=object&value=3

Used API class: /application/api/object.class.php